W-13015250 remediate instance validation issues bsj (#63)
mulesoft/docs-api-governance-documentation: modules/ROOT/pages/fix-instance-conformance-issues.adoc

= Finding and Fixing Conformance Issues in API Instances

After API Governance identifies conformance issues in your API instances, you can view the governance validation report details to get the information you need to fix the issues. After you identify what needs to be fixed, go to the instance in API Manager and fix the issue. If the issue is an instance-related issue in the specification, use your API editor, such as API Designer, to fix the specification.

// Screenshot of a Conformance Report page with callouts 

include::_partials/api-gov-apim-governance-report.adoc[]

== View Conformance Issue Details in the Governance Report

> To view instance conformance issues in the governance validation report:

Reviewer: Just a thought... I wonder if a screenshot (or two) with callouts (instead of the hierarchy) would be easier to see at a glance.

Author: I'm not sure I understand this comment. I have two screenshots with callouts in the topic. They're in partials. You can see the built doc [here on the internal site](https://dev-docs-internal.kqa.msap.io/beta-apig-apim/api-governance/fix-instance-conformance-issues#example-rules-and-recommended-fixes).

Author: Do you mean side by side vs. in separate sections? BTW, we will be building up this functionality and corresponding doc in future releases, but it's MVP for this release.

. Navigate to the report.
* In API Governance:
+
.. In the API Governance console, select the *Governed APIs* tab.
.. If the *Instances* column has a *Nonconformant* badge, click *View Report* for information about the conformance issue.
* In API Manager:
.. Select the *Conformance Report* page for the API that is marked as nonconformant.
. View nonconformance details for each ruleset:
+
* Click the icon for the nonconformance severity to see details for issues for that severity level. 
* Click *View Details* to see the full breakdown of conformance issues.

== View Rule Details in the Rulesets

> If the nonconformance messages in the governance validation report don't have enough detail to help you fix the issues, you can view more detailed information in the rulesets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the nonconformance messages in the governance validation report don't have enough detail to help you fix the issues, view rule details in rulesets: 
```

> To view rules details in rulesets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Are we prohibited from using this style? I saw in the standards that it's optional. I like the consistency of it for scanning for tasks.

Author: I realize that the trade-off is some duplication in this case.

. In Exchange, open the ruleset. 
. View the documentation for the ruleset.

> . To identify the conformance issue, view descriptions and messages for the rules to which your API doesn't conform.

Reviewer: I think it's OK to end a sentence with a preposition, but I can't find it in the SR (ours or SF).
...for the rules that your API doesn't conform to.

Author: Yeah, I still get a little old-fashioned on this, but I know Microsoft changed this rule a long time ago. I thought "to which ..." was a little easier to read in this longish sentence, but perhaps we should avoid it.

// Screenshot of a section of the ruleset with a description of the properties 

include::_partials/api-gov-apim-ruleset-fix-tips.adoc[]

== Example Rules and Recommended Fixes

> The following table shows some example rules and the actions that you can take to fix conformance to those rules.

Reviewer: Kim would recommend a colon here.

[cols="3a,3a,3a",frame=none]
|===

|Rule
|Scope
|Recommended Fix

> |$BEFORE policies should be configured before $AFTER policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Configure $BEFORE policies before $AFTER policies.
```

Reviewer: (That's probably wrong - I was reading it as a 2-column table.)

Author: This text in the first column (rule) is in the ruleset itself, so the text needs to match.
